README.md, before:

### Vite HTML Boilerplate template - <small>made by codegorrilla</small>
![Vite-html](images/vite-html.png)
***

#### How to make the boilerplate-
1. Open terminal, type the below commands in order create a folder and get inside the folder

```bash
mkdir folder-name && cd folder-name
```
2. Initialize npm inside the folder
```bash
npm init -y
```
3. Install Vite front-end build tool as development only dependency
```bash
npm --save-dev vite
```
4. Install Sass compiler
```bash
npm --save-dev sass
```
5. Create a folder src, and inside it create two sub folders as-
```bash
mkdir {src,src/js,src/scss}
```
6. Now create following files as-
```bash
touch src/index.html src/js/main.js src/scss/styles.scss vite.config.js
```
7. Paste the following code inside vite.config.js in order to enable HMR via Vite, to create a local server and output the build files into a folder named dist-
```js
import { resolve } from 'path'

export default {
  root: resolve(__dirname, 'src'),
  build: {
    outDir: '../dist'
  },
  server: {
    port: 8080
  }
}
```
8. Now to run the local Vite server, we need to add the following npm script inside package.json file as-
```json
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "vite",
  },
  // ...
}
```
9. Now add the following HTML code inside the index.html file as-
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
    <script type="module" src="./js/main.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    
</body>
</html>
```
10. Add the following code inside the main.js file as-
```js
import '../scss/styles.scss';
```
11. Now run the project by typing the following command inside terminal
```bash
npm start
```
*<i>for macOS users only: in case if you face any issue in the terminal while running npm start like</i>
```bash
Expected identifier but found "import"
(define name):1:0:
1 │ import.meta.dirname
```
<i> use the following command in order to downgrade esbuild version as-</i>
```bash
npm i -D esbuild@0.24.0
```

12. Initialize Git in the project folder
```bash
git init
```

13. Add a .gitignore file in the root of the project folder 
```bash
touch .gitignore
```
and add following directories to exclude them while performing Git operations inside the .gitignore file as-
```bash
node_modules
.vscode/*
```

You're all set to move ahead :)

Commit message:

added note inside readme file for exceptional instances encountered with Vite on macOS

README.md, after:

### Vite HTML Boilerplate template - <small>made by codegorrilla</small>
![Vite-html](images/vite-html.png)
***

#### How to make the boilerplate-
1. Open terminal, type the below commands in order create a folder and get inside the folder

```bash
mkdir folder-name && cd folder-name
```
2. Initialize npm inside the folder
```bash
npm init -y
```
3. Install Vite front-end build tool as development only dependency
```bash
npm --save-dev vite
```
OR
```bash
npm i vite --save-dev
```

4. Install Sass compiler
```bash
npm --save-dev sass 
```
OR
```bash
npm i sass --save-dev
```

##### Note: In case the above commands doesn't work, particularly in case of installing Vite, do try to install Vite globally with the following commands via opening terminal on macOS. Make sure you're in the root/ in the home folder of your mac.

```bash
sudo npm i -g vite
vite --version
```


5. Create a folder src, and inside it create two sub folders as-
```bash
mkdir {src,src/js,src/scss}
```
6. Now create following files as-
```bash
touch src/index.html src/js/main.js src/scss/styles.scss vite.config.js
```
7. Paste the following code inside vite.config.js in order to enable HMR via Vite, to create a local server and output the build files into a folder named dist-
```js
import { resolve } from 'path'

export default {
  root: resolve(__dirname, 'src'),
  build: {
    outDir: '../dist'
  },
  server: {
    port: 8080
  }
}
```
8. Now to run the local Vite server, we need to add the following npm script inside package.json file as-
```json
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "vite",
  },
  // ...
}
```
9. Now add the following HTML code inside the index.html file as-
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
    <script type="module" src="./js/main.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    
</body>
</html>
```
10. Add the following code inside the main.js file as-
```js
import '../scss/styles.scss';
```
11. Now run the project by typing the following command inside terminal
```bash
npm start
```
*<i>for macOS users only: in case if you face any issue in the terminal while running npm start like</i>
```bash
Expected identifier but found "import"
(define name):1:0:
1 │ import.meta.dirname
```
<i> use the following command in order to downgrade esbuild version as-</i>
```bash
npm i -D esbuild@0.24.0
```

12. Initialize Git in the project folder
```bash
git init
```

13. Add a .gitignore file in the root of the project folder 
```bash
touch .gitignore
```
and add following directories to exclude them while performing Git operations inside the .gitignore file as-
```bash
node_modules
.vscode/*
```

You're all set to move ahead :)
